PseudoLab1
Draw Flowchart for pseudocode

Draw a flowchart or write pseudocode to represent the logic of a program that allows the user to enter a value for one edge of a cube. The program calculates the surface area of one side of the cube, the surface area of the cube, and its volume. The progrma outputs all the results.

Draw a flowchart or write pseudocode to represent the logic of a program that allows the user to enter two values. The program outputs the sum and the differences between two values

Draw a flowchart or write pseudocode to represent the logic of a program that allows the user to enter an hourly pay rate and hours worked. The program outputs the user's gross pay.

MOdify the program that computes gross pay to allow the user to enter the withholding tax rate. The program outputs the net pay after taxes have been withheld.

Research current rates of monetary exchange. Draw a flowchart or write pseudocode to represent the logic of a program that allows the user to enter a number of dollasrs and convert it to euros and Japanese yen.

A mobile phone app allows a user to press a button that starts a timer that counts seconds. When the user presses the button again, the timer stops. Draw a flowchart or write pseudocode that accepts the elapsed time in seconds and displays the value in munutes and seconds. For example, if the elapsed time was 130 seconds, the output would be 2 minutes and 10 seconds.




Debugging Labs
Find the errors

If the programmer translates the following pseudocode to an actual programming language, a syntax errror is likely to occur. Can you find the error?
Declare String 1stPrize

Display "Enter the award for first prize."
Input 1stPrize

Display "The first prize winner will receive "' 1stPrize
The following code will not display the results expected by the programmer. Can you find the error?
Declare Real lowest, highest, average

Display "Enter the lowest score."
Input lowest

Display "Enter the highest score."
Input highest

Set average = low + high/2
Display "The average is ", average, "."

Find the error in the following pseudocode
Display "Enter the length of the room."
Input length 
Declare Integer length

Find the error in the following pseudocode
Declare Integer value1, value2, value3, sum
Set sum= value1 + value2 + value3

Display "Enter the first value."
Input value1

Display "Enter the second value."
Input value2

Display "Enter the third value."
Input value3

Display "The sum of numbers is ", sum

Find the error in the following pseudocode
Declare Real pi
Set 3.14159265 = pi
Display "The value of pi is ". pi
Find the error in the following pseudocode.
Constant Real GRAVITY = 9.81
Display "Rates of acceleration of an objet in free fall:"
Display "Earth: ", GRAVITY, " meters per second every second."
Set GRAVITY = 1.63
Display "Moon: ", GRAVITY, " meters per second every second."



PseudoLab2
Draw hierarchy Charts

Draw the hierarchy chart and then plan the logic for a program needed by Hometown Bank. The program determines a monthly checking account fee. Input includes an account balance and the number of times the account was overdrawn. The output is the fee, which is 1 percent of the balance minus 5 dollars for each time the account was overdrawn. Use three modules. The main program declares global variables and calls housekeeping, detail, and end-of-job modules. The housekeeping module prompts for and accepts a balances. The detail module prompts for and accepts the number of overdrafts, computes the fee, and displays the result. The end-of-job module displays the message Thanks for using this program.

Revise the banking program so that it runs continuously for any number of accounts. The detail loop executes continuously while the balance entered is not negative; in addition to calculating the fee, it prompts the user for and gets the balance for the next account. The end-of-job module executes after a number less than 0 is entered for the account balance.

Draw the hierarchy chart and design the logic for a program that calculates service charges for Hazel's Housecleaning service. The program contains housekeeping, detail loop, and end-of-job modules. The main program declares any needed global variables and constants and calls the other modules. The housekeeping module displays a prompt for and accepts a customer's last name. While the user does not enter ZZZZ for the name, the detail loop accepts the number of bathrooms and the number of other rooms to be cleaned. The service charge is computed as $40 plus $15 for each bathroom and $10 for each of the other rooms. The detail loop also displays the service charge and then prompts the user for the next customer's name. The end-of-job module, which executes after the user enters the sentinel value for the name, displays a message that indicates the program is complete.

Draw the hierarchy chart and design the logic for a program needed by the manager of the Stengel County softball team, who wants to compute slugging percentages for his players. A slugging percentage is the total bases earned with base hits divided by the player's number of at-bats. Design a program that prompts the user for a player jersey number, the number of bases earned, and the number of at-bats, and then displays all the data, including the calculated slugging average. The program accepts players continuously until 0 is entered for the jersey number. Use appropriate modules, including one that displays End of job after the sentinel is entered for the jersey number.

Modify the slugging percentage program to also calculate a player's on-base percentage. An on-base percentage is calculated by adding a player's hits and walks, and then dividing by the sum of at-bats, walks, and sacrifice flies. Prompt the user for all the additional data needed, and display all the data for each player.

Find the Errors

Find the error in the following pseudocode
Module main() 
    Call getCalories() 
End Module 


Module getCalories() 
    Declare Real calories 
    Display "How many calories are in the first food?" 
    Input calories 
    Declare Real calories 
    Display "How many calories are in the second food?" 
    Input calories 
End Module 

Find the error in the following pseudocode
Module main()  
    Call raiseToPower(2, 1.5) 
End Module 


Module raiseToPower(Real value, Integer power)  
    Declare Real result 
    Set result = valueApower 
    Display result 
End Module
End of Lab2